.. vim: ft=rst sts=2 sw=2 tw=75

###########################################################################
                                  libcmp
###########################################################################
===========================================================================
                             Librarized cmp(1)
===========================================================================

.. This file is marked up using reStructuredText.
   Lines beginning with ".." are reST directives.
   "foo_" or "`foo bar`_" is a link, defined at ".. _foo" or
   ".. _foo bar".
   "::" introduces a literal block (usually some form of code).
   "`foo`" is some kind of identifier.
   Suspicious backslashes in the text ("`std::string`\s") are required
   for reST to recognize the preceding character as syntax, or the
   following character as *not* syntax (\*.spec).

.. default-role:: strong

Introduction
============

`libcmp` will be a reasonably portable, fast, thread-safe,
`BSD`_-`licensed`_ library for file comparisons, suitable as a backend for
all functionality of *cmp(1)* in `FreeBSD`_ 10.0 and `GNU diffutils 3.3`_
or later.  `/base/release/10.0.0/usr.bin/cmp`_ from FreeBSD was used as
the starting point.

The FreeBSD code is horrible spaghetti [1]_ but at least provides a frame
of reference.  The original code is also slower (2x) than diffutils 3.3,
at least on Linux 3.14 with glibc 2.19.  As the real goal of this project
is to provide an implementation for a builtin *cmp(1)* in `Zsh`_ which has
a BSD-like license, the GNU implementation is out of question, and it's not
library-grade code either anyway.  Global variables, *exit(3)*, *xmalloc*,
*errx(3)*: you name it, they have it.

BTW, `cmp -s` is slower than `diff -q` (both diffutils 3.3), which i find
funny in a sad way, though it's understandable given the code structure.

.. [1] Actually, it's too straightforward.  Bogged down in minutiae,
    laborious to extend (correctly).

.. _`BSD`: http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause
.. _`licensed`: LICENSE
.. _`FreeBSD`: https://www.freebsd.org/
.. _`GNU diffutils 3.3`: https://www.gnu.org/software/diffutils/
.. _`/base/release/10.0.0/usr.bin/cmp`:
      https://svnweb.freebsd.org/base/release/10.0.0/usr.bin/cmp/
.. _`Zsh`: http://www.zsh.org/


License
=======

Source files comprising the FreeBSD `cmp` include the "revised" (3-clause)
BSD license.  An exception is link.c with the "FreeBSD" (2-clause) license,
which is AFAICT (IANAL) indistinguishable from the MIT and ISC licenses.
New code is covered by the 2-clause license; the no-endorsement clause will
be removed from individual files when they change enough for me to fairly
claim ownership.


Hacking
=======

Requires GNU make plus gcc or clang to build, and `cram`_ (implies python)
to run the tests.

::

  pip install cram
  git clone https://github.com/roman-neuhauser/libcmp.git
  cd libcmp
  make all check

Append ``CC=clang`` to the last line to build with clang.
Change ``make`` to ``gmake`` if you're on a BSD machine.

.. _`cram`: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/cram
